-: Welcome back.
In this lecture, we are going to understand
about Fargate profile basics, right?
So, so far, we have learned about classic load balancers,
network load balancers, application load balancers,
and then certificate manager, route 53,
elastic block store, and then RDS
in combination with Kubernetes
and with the elastic Kubernetes service on AWS.
So now we are going to start with Fargate profiles.
So it is going to be divided into multiple sections,
so that we start with basics
and then move on to advanced sections of Fargate profiles.
So if we go here, in our 0901 Fargate profile basics.
So as a step one, we are going to understand
what we are going to learn as part of basics.
So assumptions here are,
we already have a EKS cluster, whose name is EKS demo one,
and then we already have a managed node group
running there with EC2 instances.
So now, we are going to add additional Fargate profile here.
So which means we are going to run the cluster
with the mixer more.
In the sense, like, we are going to have managed node groups
and also we are going to have Fargate profiles.
So we are going to create a Fargate profile
using our tool CLI name,
EKSCTL.
So we are going to deploy simple workload
with the NGINX app one as the application,
and then it's SQL in node port service will get created.
And for creating the
load balancer,
we are going to use ingress service.
And in addition to that,
we are also going to DNS these (indistinct) that
using external DNS in route 53.
So in addition to that, we are also going to learn
about new annotation for ingress which is target type IP.
Okay, so why we are going to learn about that is
because Fargate doesn't have a dedicated worker nodes.
So that dedicated EC2 type of worker node.
So which we can leverage
for node port services which we have used
for application load balancers earlier, right?
So for that purpose, we are going to directly
use the port IP to be registered
to the load balancer target types.
So we'll see more in detail when we go inside,
but, so let's go back to our presentation once
and then if you see, we already discussed
about mixer more in our introductory section.
But I will see the picture one more time.
So we have a EKS manager node group
with two instances in a private subnet currently.
Okay, so but the depiction here we are also showing
with the public subnet because manager node groups
which we can create on EC2 instances we can create
in both public and then private subnets.
But when coming to Fargate case,
so we are going to specifically tell that,
so we can only create Fargate profiles in private subnets.
So Fargate profiles can be deployed to EKS clusters only.
At least we have in our EKS cluster one private subnet.
So these cannot be deployed to the public subnets.
So that is very important point which we should be aware of.
So we already said that in private subnet,
we already have manager node groups running, right?
So let's go ahead and then see that.
So for that QCTL get nodes I funnel wide, okay?
And if you see we should have two nodes running here
and their internal IP is 110.1.14 and then 85.8.
But you can see there are no external IPs for these nodes
because, so those are deployed to this private subnets.
So now we are going to create this respect to
Fargate profile and then run the stuff here.
Moving on.
So let's see what we are going to do, right?
So as part of EKS cluster, already NAD gateways,
and then public subnets and then private subnets
are created in respect to availability zones, right?
So now we are going to create a Fargate profile FP Dell.
With the name space also FP Dell, right?
And then going to deploy application named app1NGINX.
So we have deployed it and then it created a replica set.
So once it starts creating the ports,
so those ports will be scheduled
by automatically creating the Fargate nodes.
So Fargate nodes will get created
and then these ports will be scheduled
on those respective nodes.
So we have given in our manifest replica as two,
so it is going to create two Fargate nodes.
So here, one thing we need to understand here is in Fargate,
so the number of hosts is directly proportional
to number of ports.
So if you give 10 ports in your replicas,
in your deployment, so obviously you're going to get
created 10 Fargate nodes.
So now moving on, we are going to also automatically
have an outbound connection to the EKS cluster plane
for these Fargate nodes via NAD gateways.
The next thing is, it's equal and node port service also
will get created.
So when we are doing the complete mixer,
more with multiple applications,
few on worker nodes and then few on
Fargate.
Then these node port services will be very
helpful where we are going to define target type colon IP
as the annotation at the service level also
as even required.
So now we are going to create the ingress service,
means like, whatever the manifest we created it is going to
create ingress service with the SSL, SSL redirect,
external DNS, everything.
And then it'll also associate
the SSL certificate creator here
and enable the SSL redirect and also DNS is still the
fpdell.kube on cloud.com for using external DNS.
And then whenever user tries to access fpdell.kube
on cloud.com/app/index.html, so it comes
to application load balancer and for the slash star,
it is directly going to the ports.
So there is no node port service in between.
So from application load balancer target types,
it is going to directly go to the respective ports.
Whenever we use the target type annotation with IP.
By default, it is going to have target type
is equal to instance,
which we really don't need to define because it is default.
So now let's go back to our GitHub repo.
So and then move on with the prerequisite steps.
So one thing we need to understand in prerequisite CREs.
EKSCTL,
CLA.
So this is very important thing.
So EKSCTL will have continuous releases
with new feature editions every 15, 20 days.
So it's a very high evolving space nowadays in AWS.
Means like EKSCTL and also Fargate related stuff.
So that is the case, even though means like,
whenever you have started and then implemented this.
So you might have installed some version here,
In other words, zero one EKS create cluster using EKSCTL.
And now whenever you are doing maybe 15 days over
and then again, you are trying with different,
different things in your course,
go ahead and then update your EKSCTL.
So every 17 to 20 days, they have upgrades
to the EKSCTL with lot of new features
coming into the place.
So always it is recommended to use latest version.
And then this is the releaser space where
you can browse to see latest version.
And EKS serial version will provide you the exact
information about what is the current version.
I've also updated the report to check your version
and then accordingly you can crosscheck
in the EKSCTL releases
what is the latest version and then update it.
So this is only a prerequisite
and then cautionary step for you.
Okay, and now moving on prerequisite check
about ALB ingress controller and then external DNS, right?
So now if you go back to our PowerPoint here,
so whatever you deploy in this private subnet,
whatever the workloads you deploy,
how are you going to expose it
to the internet to test your application, right?
So because this Fargate nodes doesn't have
any concept of node port service.
So even though if you create the node port service,
so that node port information is not there,
because it doesn't have a static node which
supports these node port things, right?
So even if you define a cluster IP service,
it will be restricted to your cluster,
but you cannot access at the internet level.
So that's the reason you need to have the user
or whatever the related load balancer created here, okay?
So I'm just saying here, user management
load balancer only because anything is fine, right?
Manifest things I'm not going to change too much
because upcoming again, next lecture (indistinct),
we are going to add the user management stuff, okay?
So but some load balancer, we are going to get created here
for our app one, right?
So whatever we are getting created here,
those needs of few prerequisite services, right?
Example, if you want to create a application load balancer
in via Kubernetes,
you need to have the ALB ingress controller installed.
In the same way,
if you want to register your DNS to route 53,
you need external DNS should be available.
So we need to ensure that those are available
for us on our current work node.
As part of previous sections, we are anyway
continuing the same cluster EKS demo one.
Those should be available for us.
So we have verified kubectl get nodes -o wide.
So we are going to verify KubeCTL
get ports -n kube system to see that our ALB
ingress controller port is running, right?
So our ALB ingress controller port is running, no issues.
So we'll also verify get ports in default names
space where our external DNS port is running.
So if these two are there, then only our this respect to
load balance or whatever we are going to
create for this app we are deploying
in Fargate is going to get created,
and then DNS wasted in route 53 successfully.
So we verify all of our prerequisite steps also.
In our next lecture,
we'll focus on creating Fargate profile
and then deploying the stuff and then testing it.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye.
Thank you.